welcome to a main hobbies calm I'm
Derrick 3 I'm Gregor McGrath and we're
here talking a little bit today about
the five most important tools you'll
need for helicopter setup we're here
with our resident geek guru helicopter
pilot
Gregor McGrath and he's gonna give us a
rundown and overview of everything that
you need to have in your toolbox in
order to set up a helicopter properly
that's right that's right
now today I'm really excited to do this
I get this question an awful lot Derek
and you know there's there's five most
important tools that I think is
essential for a beginner looking at
purchasing their first helicopter kit to
have in their toolbox alright first
we're gonna start off with the Pitts
gauge the pitch gauge now comes in two
forms we've got a digital pitch gauge
and you've got a mechanical pitch gauge
know for those of you with flybarless
this digital pitch gauge is Keith this
this is a really nice tool and almost a
must-have
these days with flybarless okay okay the
second pitch gauge available is going to
be the mechanical this is this the type
that most of us are used to saying and
this is really good even for the fly bar
guys I actually prefer this pitch gauge
over the digital would fly bar so again
this is a very important piece of
equipment to have in your toolbox
whether it's a digital for flybarless or
mechanical fly bar the second tool I
think is really important to have is the
inside-outside the calipers here these
these are really handy for making those
little ball links up for your helicopter
whether you're using a 450 links or all
the way up to 800 size links the dial
indicator is nice to have the third tool
on our list is going to be the ball link
pliers bowling pliers are essential for
taking the ball links off on and off
while building when you're making those
measurements very important save your
fingers from the bruising all right and
then next on our list as we work our way
up into building the helicopter and
we're starting set up the swash plate
leveler is very
working to have I know a lot of people
like to fudge this but you fly brawl
this guys this is important to have so
you're looking at buying a flybarless
kit add this to your list and then these
tools here your hex wrenches these are
very important to have metric hex
wrenches are in most are needed for most
of our helicopter kits in the market and
the sizes that we use to Eric are
anywhere from 1.5 2.0 2.5 and 3.0 on
most helicopters okay and in some cases
with the larger helicopters all the way
up to you know three and four
millimeters very important to have so if
you're looking to build like a 700
electric nitro to 700 class helicopter
definitely recommend getting all the way
up to 4.0 and that about covers it for
for the the must-have in your toolbox
building a first time kit okay so now
we'll move on to some of the optional
tools absolutely and one of my favorite
tools I like to show off in my tool
boxes is these these ball Inc wrenches
falling for inches hurt really nice I
got so sick and tired of bruising my
hands well you know building my
helicopter and when I saw these kns
produces these and when I saw these I
had to have a set and I love them I I
have several sets and I keep them in
various places and I can definitely
relate to that yeah definitely yeah so
it's this is this is nice they have not
a must-have but nice to have in your
toolbox so moving right along nut
drivers is is you know another nice
thing to have in your toolbox
you never know you know Marn up your
little uh a little lone nuts with your
pliers or whatnot this saves you from
that so I'm not drive a grits absolutely
nut drivers are really nice to have
again not album holder
that's right like that absolutely so
your nut drivers all right another nice
tool that we have here is a set of
paddle gauges these are handy when
you're setting the paddles of your
helicopter in perfect plane to each
other not a must-have but very nice to
have in your toolbox and the last thing
on our list here Derek we've got this
fly bar lock here this is really nice
especially when you're you're starting
out most of us get into like the 450
class helicopters and we don't know
where we can fudge or you know or what
not this is this is really good this
actually locks onto the rotor head and
keeps your fly bar in perfect plane nice
and level so you can actually set your
blade pitch and you know not have any of
those oh man I just you know yeah it's
almost like a third hand I'll point it
so that this is this is really nice to
have and I would say you know for a lot
of beginners out there this is essential
until you start learning where you can
encounter gosh all right there we had
from the man himself Gregor McGrath must
haves in this and optional food for
setup and RC helicopters and we'll see
you guys next week visit a main hobbies
calm